Roles & Responsibilities:

Configures and manages security solutions such as firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems (IDS/IPS), endpoint protection, and data loss prevention (DLP) solutions.
Communicates technical information to non-technical users and collaborate with different teams successfully.
Contributes to the overall success of the company by performing all other duties and responsibilities as assigned by line manager.
Performs cybersecurity reviews and identify gaps in security architecture, to develop cybersecurity risk management plans.
Defines system security context, concept of operations and baseline requirements in line with applicable cybersecurity policies.
Writes detailed functional specifications that document the architecture development process.
Develops enterprise architecture or system components required to meet user needs.
Determines security controls for information systems and networks and document appropriately.
Defines appropriate availability levels for critical system functions and disaster recovery and continuity of operations requirements to deliver them.
Develops and integrates cybersecurity designs for systems and networks with multilevel security requirements.
Designs systems and solutions to support successful proofs-of-concept and pilot projects in emerging technology areas.
Evaluates and determines the adequacy of security architectures and designs.
Designs, implements, tests, and evaluates secure interfaces between information systems, physical systems, and embedded technologies.
Identifies the third-party system integration requirements and work with the in-house professional services and / or outside system integrator partners to deliver integration solutions to meet the needs of the customer.
Leads the projects to ensures project delivered as designed on time and to the satisfaction of the customer.
 

Skills:

Expert proficiency in determining the security control requirements of information systems and networks.
Expert proficiency in designing the integration of technology processes and solutions, including legacy systems and modern programming languages.
Expert proficiency ill in applying cybersecurity and privacy principles to organizational requirements.
Strong expertise in determining the security control requirements of information systems and networks.
Strong expertise in designing the integration of technology processes and solutions, including legacy systems and modern programming languages.
Strong expertise ill in applying cybersecurity and privacy principles to organizational requirements.
Strong expertise in determining the normal operational state for security systems and how that state is affected by change.
Strong expertise in designing the integration of hardware and software solutions.
Strong expertise in applying and incorporating information technologies into proposed solutions.
Strong expertise of security protocols, cryptography, authentication, authorization, and security.
Strong expertise in Security technology domain with demonstrated expertise in one or more of the following areas - AAA, Firewall, IPS/IDS, Access Control, Encryption, VPN, Web security, Mail security, IAM, EDR, DLP, WAF, SIEM, PAM, IAM, SOAR.
Strong expertise in troubleshooting and implementing Security solutions across Enterprise and Service provider environments.